# Ider - small go library to create distinct distributed IDs 

## Description

This library is used to generate an individual ID for each request. 

### Use case description 

You can have for example a series of servers (perhaps behind a load balancer), that need to write in a database or to another microservice some data that needs to be identified by a unique id for each request.
The classical solution would be to generate a GUID for each of these requests. While this is a viable solution, it tends to be rather slow (the GUID generation that is).
This comes a solution to these issue.
The IDs generated by this solution are dependent mainly of three factors. These makes them unique for each request.

* The first factor is the time (unix time). This alone gives you a separation for each second. This is the way the time is used. If you have two requests, one called one second later then the other, then you allready have two separated IDs

* The second factor is an incremental part. This will be incremented from 0 to 9999 (you could easily change it to go up to 99999 or even more). That is you can have 10000 calls in the same second and all of them will receive a separate generated ID.

* The third factor is the server ID. Each server will have its unique server ID. So you can have 10000 requests per second for each server. So if you have 100 servers, each one could obtain 10000 IDs per second from the same microservice, and you would have 1 000 000 unique IDs per second.

## Use

You could look in the *test.sh* file to see how this solution could be used. In *test.sh* 50 Docker containers are being generated and each one of them sends 2000 requests to a server (also a Docker container). This server will write the data to files. The data will be sorted after all the clients have send their data and put in a single file. You can then check the file to see if the lines are unique.
